CSAT on logging (#17820)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/logging/index.md

  * In the Debug output window when debugging.
  * In the ASP.NET Core Web Server window.
* In the console window when the app is run with `dotnet run`.

Logs that begin with "Microsoft" categories are from ASP.NET Core framework code. ASP.NET Core and application code use the same logging API and providers.

<a name="lcat"></a>

## Log category

When an `ILogger` object is created, a *category* is specified. That category is included with each log message created by that instance of `ILogger`. The category string is arbitrary, but the convention is to use the class name. For example, in a controller the name might be `"TodoApi.Controllers.TodoController"`. The ASP.NET Core web apps use `ILogger<T>` to automatically get an `ILogger` instance that uses the fully qualified type name of `T` as the category:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Pages/Privacy.cshtml.cs?name=snippet)]

To explicitly specify the category, call `ILoggerFactory.CreateLogger`:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Pages/Contact.cshtml.cs?name=snippet)]

`ILogger<T>` is equivalent to calling `CreateLogger` with the fully qualified type name of `T`.

<a name="llvl"></a>

## Log level

> The following table lists the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LogLevel>, the convenience `Log{LogLevel}` extension method, and the suggested usage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table lists the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LogLevel> values, the convenience `Log{LogLevel}` extension method, and the suggested usage:
```

| [Warning](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LogLevel) | 3 | [LogWarning](/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.logging.loggerextensions.logwarning)  | For abnormal or unexpected events. Typically includes errors or conditions that don't cause the app to fail.  |
| [Error](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LogLevel) | 4 | [LogError](/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.logging.loggerextensions.logerror)  | For errors and exceptions that cannot be handled. These messages indicate a failure in the current operation or request, not an app-wide failure. |
| [Critical](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LogLevel) | 5| [LogCritical](/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.logging.loggerextensions.logcritical)  | For failures that require immediate attention. Examples: data loss scenarios, out of disk space. |
| [None](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.None) | 6|   | Specifies that a logging category should not write any messages. |

In the previous table, the `LogLevel` is listed from lowest to highest severity.

> The [Log](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LoggerExtensions) methods first parameter, <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LogLevel>, indicates the severity of the log. Rather than calling `Log(LogLevel, ...)`, most developers call the [Log{LogLevel}](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LoggerExtensions) extension methods. The `Log{LogLevel}` extension methods [call the Log method and specify the LogLevel](https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/blob/release/3.1/src/Logging/Logging.Abstractions/src/LoggerExtensions.cs). For example, the following two logging calls are functionally equivalent and produce the same log:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Log](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LoggerExtensions) method's first parameter, <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LogLevel>, indicates the severity of the log. Rather than calling `Log(LogLevel, ...)`, most developers call the [Log{LogLevel}](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.LoggerExtensions) extension methods. The `Log{LogLevel}` extension methods [call the Log method and specify the LogLevel](https://github.com/dotnet/extensions/blob/release/3.1/src/Logging/Logging.Abstractions/src/LoggerExtensions.cs). For example, the following two logging calls are functionally equivalent and produce the same log:
```

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Controllers/TestController.cs?name=snippet0&highlight=6-7)]

`MyLogEvents.TestItem` is the event ID. `MyLogEvents` is part of the sample app and is displayed in the [Log event ID](#leid) section.

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/MyDisplayRouteInfoBoth.md)]

The following code creates `Information` and `Warning` logs:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Controllers/TodoItemsController.cs?name=snippet_CallLogMethods&highlight=4,10)]

> In the preceding code, the first `Log{LogLevel}` parameter,`MyLogEvents.GetItem`, is the [Log event ID](#leid). The second parameter is a message template with placeholders for argument values provided by the remaining method parameters. The method parameters are explained in the [message template section](#lmt) later in this article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding code, the first `Log{LogLevel}` parameter,`MyLogEvents.GetItem`, is the [Log event ID](#leid). The second parameter is a message template with placeholders for argument values provided by the remaining method parameters. The method parameters are explained in the [message template](#lmt) section later in this document.
```

Call the appropriate `Log{LogLevel}` method to control how much log output is written to a particular storage medium. For example:

* In production:
  * Logging at the `Trace` or `Information` levels produces a high-volume of detailed log messages. To control costs and not exceed data storage limits, log `Trace` and `Information` level messages to a high-volume, low-cost data store. Consider limiting `Trace` and `Information` to specific categories.

>   * Logging at `Warning` through `Critical` levels should produces few log messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Logging at `Warning` through `Critical` levels should produce few log messages.
```

info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.RazorPages.Infrastructure.PageActionInvoker[101]
      Executing handler method DefaultRP.Pages.PrivacyModel.OnGet - ModelState is Valid
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.RazorPages.Infrastructure.PageActionInvoker[102]
      Executed handler method OnGet, returned result .
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.RazorPages.Infrastructure.PageActionInvoker[103]
      Executing an implicit handler method - ModelState is Valid
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.RazorPages.Infrastructure.PageActionInvoker[104]
      Executed an implicit handler method, returned result Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.RazorPages.PageResult.
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.RazorPages.Infrastructure.PageActionInvoker[4]
      Executed page /Privacy in 74.5188ms
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Routing.EndpointMiddleware[1]
      Executed endpoint '/Privacy'
info: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.Diagnostics[2]
      Request finished in 149.3023ms 200 text/html; charset=utf-8
```

The following JSON sets `Logging:Console:LogLevel:Microsoft:Information`:

[!code-json[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/appsettings.MSFT.json)]

<a name="leid"></a>

## Log event ID

> Each log can specify an *event ID*. The sample app uses the `MyLogEvents` class tp define event IDs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each log can specify an *event ID*. The sample app uses the `MyLogEvents` class to define event IDs:
```

> <!-- Review: to bad there is no way to use an enum for event ID's -->

Reviewer: It might be a bit much to include it in the topic, but it's actually a struct, [`EventId`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.logging.eventid?view=dotnet-plat-ext-3.1), that gets used with these calls. There's an implicit coversion from `int`, which is why this works as shown. Here's an [example](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/master/src/Hosting/Hosting/src/Internal/LoggerEventIds.cs) I found for something similar to this `MyLogEvents` class, but using `EventId` with a friendly name.

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Models/MyLogEvents.cs?name=snippet_LoggingEvents)]

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Controllers/TodoItemsController.cs?name=snippet_CallLogMethods&highlight=4,10)]

An event ID associates a set of events. For example, all logs related to displaying a list of items on a page might be 1001.

The logging provider may store the event ID in an ID field, in the logging message, or not at all. The Debug provider doesn't show event IDs. The console provider shows event IDs in brackets after the category:

```console
info: TodoApi.Controllers.TodoItemsController[1002]
      Getting item 1
warn: TodoApi.Controllers.TodoItemsController[4000]
      Get(1) NOT FOUND
```

Some logging providers store the event ID in a field, which allows for filtering on the ID.

<a name="lmt"></a>

## Log message template
<!-- Review, Each log API uses a message template. -->

> Each log API uses a message template. The message template can contain placeholders for which arguments are provided. Use names for the placeholders, not numbers.

Reviewer: I like "uses" here.

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Controllers/TodoItemsController.cs?name=snippet_CallLogMethods&highlight=4,10)]

The order of placeholders, not their names, determines which parameters are used to provide their values. In the following code, the parameter names are out of sequence in the message template:

```csharp

> string p1 = "parm1";
> string p2 = "parm2";

Reviewer: I guess this should be "param":

```suggestion
string p1 = "param1";
string p2 = "param2";
```

_logger.LogInformation("Parameter values: {p2}, {p1}", p1, p2);
```

> The  preceding code creates a log message with the parameter values in sequence:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding code creates a log message with the parameter values in sequence:
```

```text

> Parameter values: parm1, parm2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter values: param1, param2
```

```

> The logging framework works this way so that logging providers can implement [semantic or structured logging](https://github.com/NLog/NLog/wiki/How-to-use-structured-logging). The arguments themselves are passed to the logging system, not just the formatted message template. Logging this way enables logging providers to store the parameter values as fields. For example, consider the following logger method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach allows logging providers to implement [semantic or structured logging](https://github.com/NLog/NLog/wiki/How-to-use-structured-logging). The arguments themselves are passed to the logging system, not just the formatted message template. This enables logging providers to store the parameter values as fields. For example, consider the following logger method:
```

```csharp
_logger.LogInformation("Getting item {Id} at {RequestTime}", id, DateTime.Now);
```

> When logging to Azure Table Storage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, when logging to Azure Table Storage:
```

* Each Azure Table entity can have `ID` and `RequestTime` properties.

> * Tables with properties simplify queries on loged data. For example, a query can find all logs within a particular `RequestTime` range without parsing the time out of the text message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tables with properties simplify queries on logged data. For example, a query can find all logs within a particular `RequestTime` range without having to parse the time out of the text message.
```

## Log exceptions

The logger methods have overloads that take an exception parameter:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Controllers/TestController.cs?name=snippet_Exp)]

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/MyDisplayRouteInfoBoth.md)]

Exception logging is provider-specific.

### Default log level

If the default log level is not set, the default log level value is `Information`.

For example, consider the following web app:

* Created with the ASP.NET web app templates.
* *appsettings.json* and *appsettings.Development.json* deleted or renamed.

> With the preceding code, navigating to the privacy or home page produces many `Trace`, `Debug`, and `Information`  messages with `Microsoft` in the category name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the preceding setup, navigating to the privacy or home page produces many `Trace`, `Debug`, and `Information`  messages with `Microsoft` in the category name.
```

The following code sets the default log level when the default log level is not set in configuration:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/MyMain/Program.cs?name=snippet_MinLevel&highlight=9)]

> <!-- review required: I say this a couple times -->

Reviewer: This seems sensible to me, but it's more guidance than technical, so I know that doesn't count for much. :) But yeah, this makes it much easier to dial up logging levels when a live system is under investigation.

| Microsoft.AspNetCore.StaticFiles    | Files served. |
| Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore       | General Entity Framework Core diagnostics. Database activity and configuration, change detection, migrations. |

To view more categories in the console window, set **appsettings.Development.json** to the following:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/MyMain/appsettings.Trace.json)]

<!-- Review: What other providers support scopes? Console is not generally used in staging/production  -->

<a name="logscopes"></a>

## Log scopes

 A *scope* can group a set of logical operations. This grouping can be used to attach the same data to each log that's created as part of a set. For example, every log created as part of processing a transaction can include the transaction ID.

A scope:

* Is an <xref:System.IDisposable> type that's returned by the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILogger.BeginScope*> method.
* Lasts until it's disposed.

The following providers support scopes:

* `Console`
* [AzureAppServicesFile and AzureAppServicesBlob](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.AzureAppServices.BatchingLoggerOptions.IncludeScopes)

> Use a scope by wrapping logger calls in a `using` block:

Reviewer: I think it would be useful to show an example of the output from this.

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Controllers/TestController.cs?name=snippet_Scopes)]

The following JSON enables scopes for the console provider:

[!code-json[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/appsettings.Scopes.json)]

The following code enables scopes for the console provider:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/MyMain/Program.cs?name=snippet_Scopes)]

Generally, logging should be specified in configuration and not code.

<a name="bilp"></a>

## Built-in logging providers

ASP.NET Core includes the following logging providers:

* [Console](#console-provider)
* [Debug](#debug-provider)
* [EventSource](#event-source-provider)
* [EventLog](#welog)
* [AzureAppServicesFile](#azure-app-service-provider)
* [AzureAppServicesBlob](#azure-app-service-provider)
* [ApplicationInsights](#azure-application-insights)

For information on `stdout` and debug logging with the ASP.NET Core Module, see <xref:test/troubleshoot-azure-iis> and <xref:host-and-deploy/aspnet-core-module#log-creation-and-redirection>.

> ### Console provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Console
```

The `Console` provider logs output to the console. For more information on viewing `Console` logs in development, see [Logging output from dotnet run and Visual Studio](#dnrvs).

> ### Debug provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Debug
```

The `Debug` provider writes log output by using the [System.Diagnostics.Debug](/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.debug) class. Calls to `System.Diagnostics.Debug.WriteLine` write to the `Debug` provider.

> On Linux, the `Debug` provider log location is distribution-dependent. Linux the `Debug` provider log locations may be in one of the following locations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Linux, the `Debug` provider log location is distribution-dependent and may be one of the following:
```

* */var/log/message*
* */var/log/syslog*

> ### Event Source provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Event Source
```

}
```

[AddEventLog overloads](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.EventLoggerFactoryExtensions) can pass in <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.EventLog.EventLogSettings>. If `null` or not specified, the following default settings are used:

* `LogName : "Application"`
* `SourceName : ".NET Runtime"`
* `MachineName` : local machine

The following code changes the `SourceName` from the default value of `".NET Runtime"` to `MyLogs`:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/MyMain/Program.cs?name=snippetEventLog)]

> ### Azure App Service provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Azure App Service
```

* **Application Logging (Filesystem)**
* **Application Logging (Blob)**

The default location for log files is in the *D:\\home\\LogFiles\\Application* folder, and the default file name is *diagnostics-yyyymmdd.txt*. The default file size limit is 10 MB, and the default maximum number of files retained is 2. The default blob name is *{app-name}{timestamp}/yyyy/mm/dd/hh/{guid}-applicationLog.txt*.

This provider only logs when the project runs in the Azure environment.

#### Azure log streaming

Azure log streaming supports viewing log activity in real time from:

* The app server
* The web server
* Failed request tracing

To configure Azure log streaming:

* Navigate to the **App Service logs** page from the app's portal page.
* Set **Application Logging (Filesystem)** to **On**.
* Choose the log **Level**. This setting only applies to Azure log streaming.

> Navigate to the **Log Stream** page to view logs. The logged messages are logged by with the `ILogger` interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the **Log Stream** page to view logs. The logged messages are logged with the `ILogger` interface.
```

For more information, see each provider's documentation. Third-party logging providers aren't supported by Microsoft.

<a name="nhca"></a>

## Non-host console app

For an example of how to use the Generic Host in a non-web console app, see the *Program.cs* file of the [Background Tasks sample app](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/fundamentals/host/hosted-services/samples) (<xref:fundamentals/host/hosted-services>).

Logging code for apps without Generic Host differs in the way [providers are added](#add-providers) and [loggers are created](#create-logs). 

> ### Non-host console app Logging providers

Reviewer: I realise there might be a good reason for the prefix here, so feel free to ignore (well, that's always the case 😄).

```suggestion
### Logging providers
```

In a non-host console app, call the provider's `Add{provider name}` extension method while creating a `LoggerFactory`:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/LoggingConsoleApp/Program.cs?name=snippet_LoggerFactory&highlight=1,7)]

> ### Non-host console app create logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create logs
```

To create logs, use an <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILogger%601> object. Use the `LoggerFactory` to create an `ILogger`.

The following example creates a logger with `LoggingConsoleApp.Program` as the category.

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/LoggingConsoleApp/Program.cs?name=snippet_LoggerFactory&highlight=10)]

> In the following ASP.NET examples, the logger is used to create logs with `Information` as the level. The Log *level* indicates the severity of the logged event.

Reviewer: It's not clear if "ASP.NET" is needed here, or if this should just be "example".

> In the following ASP.NET examples, the logger is used to create logs with `Information` as the level. The Log *level* indicates the severity of the logged event.

Author: ```suggestion
In the following ASP.NET CORE examples, the logger is used to create logs with `Information` as the level. The Log *level* indicates the severity of the logged event.
```

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/LoggingConsoleApp/Program.cs?name=snippet_LoggerFactory&highlight=11)]

> [Levels](#log-level) and [categories](#log-category) are explained in more detail in this article.

Reviewer: I've suggested a change from "article" to "document" a few times now. It looks like both are used more than once, so really it's just about consistency.

```suggestion
[Levels](#log-level) and [categories](#log-category) are explained in more detail in this document.
```

<a name="lhc"></a>

## Log during host construction

Logging during host construction isn't directly supported. However, a separate logger can be used. In the following example, a [Serilog](https://serilog.net/) logger is used to log in `CreateHostBuilder`. `AddSerilog` uses the static configuration specified in `Log.Logger`:

> ```csharp

Reviewer: This seems like it should live in a .cs file, rather than being inline.

                .ConfigureServices((context, services) =>
                {
                    services.AddRazorPages();
                })
                .ConfigureAppConfiguration((hostingContext, config) =>
                {
                    config.AddConfiguration(builtConfig);
                })
                .ConfigureLogging(logging =>
                {   
                    logging.AddSerilog();
                })
                .ConfigureWebHostDefaults(webBuilder =>
                {
                    webBuilder.UseStartup<Startup>();
                });
        }
        catch (Exception ex)
        {
            Log.Fatal(ex, "Host builder error");

            throw;
        }
        finally
        {
            Log.CloseAndFlush();
        }
    }
}
```

<a name="csdi"></a>

## Configure a service that depends on ILogger

Constructor injection of a logger into `Startup` works in earlier versions of ASP.NET Core because a separate DI container is created for the Web Host. For information about why only one container is created for the Generic Host, see the [breaking change announcement](https://github.com/aspnet/Announcements/issues/353).

> If you need to configure a service that depends on `ILogger<T>`, you can still do that by using constructor injection or by providing a factory method. The factory method approach is recommended only if there is no other option. For example, suppose you need to fill a property with a service from DI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a service that depends on `ILogger<T>`, use constructor injection or provide a factory method. The factory method approach is recommended only if there is no other option. For example, consider a service that needs an `ILogger<T>` instance provided by DI:
```

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiSample/Startup2.cs?name=snippet_ConfigureServices&highlight=6-10)]

The preceding highlighted code is a [Func](/dotnet/api/system.func-2) that runs the first time the DI container needs to construct an instance of `MyService`. You can access any of the registered services in this way.

<a name="clms"></a>

## Create logs in Main

> The following code logins in `Main` by getting an `ILogger` instance from DI after building the host:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code logs in `Main` by getting an `ILogger` instance from DI after building the host:
```

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Program.cs?name=snippet_LogProgram)]

### Create logs in Startup

The following code writes logs in `Startup.Configure`:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/TodoApiDTO/Startup.cs?name=snippet_Configure)]

Writing logs before completion of the DI container setup in the `Startup.ConfigureServices` method is not supported:

* Logger injection into the `Startup` constructor is not supported.
* Logger injection into the `Startup.ConfigureServices` method signature is not supported

The reason for this restriction is that logging depends on DI and on configuration, which in turns depends on DI. The DI container isn't set up until `ConfigureServices` finishes.

For information on configuring a service that depends on `ILogger<T>` or why constructor injection of a logger into `Startup` worked in earlier versions, see [Configure a service that depends on ILogger](#csdi)

### No asynchronous logger methods

> Logging should be so fast that it isn't worth the performance cost of asynchronous code. If your logging data store is slow, don't write to it directly. Consider writing the log messages to a fast store initially, then move them to the slow store later. For example, if you're logging to SQL Server, you don't want to do that directly in a `Log` method, since the `Log` methods are synchronous. Instead, synchronously add log messages to an in-memory queue and have a background worker pull the messages out of the queue to do the asynchronous work of pushing data to SQL Server. For more information, see [this](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/11801) GitHub issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logging should be so fast that it isn't worth the performance cost of asynchronous code. If a logging data store is slow, don't write to it directly. Consider writing the log messages to a fast store initially, then moving them to the slow store later. For example, when logging to SQL Server, don't do so directly in a `Log` method, since the `Log` methods are synchronous. Instead, synchronously add log messages to an in-memory queue and have a background worker pull the messages out of the queue to do the asynchronous work of pushing data to SQL Server. For more information, see [this](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/11801) GitHub issue.
```

The following example demonstrates logging with an <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILogger> in Razor components:

```razor
@page "/counter"
@using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
@inject ILogger<Counter> logger;

<h1>Counter</h1>

<p>Current count: @currentCount</p>

<button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>

@code {
    private int currentCount = 0;

    private void IncrementCount()
    {
        logger.LogWarning("Someone has clicked me!");

        currentCount++;
    }
}
```

The following example demonstrates logging with an <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILoggerFactory> in Razor components:

```razor
@page "/counter"
@using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
@inject ILoggerFactory LoggerFactory

<h1>Counter</h1>

<p>Current count: @currentCount</p>

<button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>

@code {
    private int currentCount = 0;

    private void IncrementCount()
    {
        var logger = LoggerFactory.CreateLogger<Counter>();
        logger.LogWarning("Someone has clicked me!");

        currentCount++;
    }
}
```

> ## Change log levels in running app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Change log levels in a running app
```

## ILogger and ILoggerFactory

The <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILogger%601> and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILoggerFactory> interfaces and implementations are included in the .NET Core SDK. They are also available in the following NuGet packages:  

* The interfaces are in [Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Abstractions](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Abstractions/).
* The default implementations are in [Microsoft.Extensions.Logging](https://www.nuget.org/packages/microsoft.extensions.logging/).

<!-- review. Why would you want to hard code filtering rules in code? -->
<a name="fric"></a>

## Apply log filter rules in code

> The preferred approach setting log filter rules is by [Configuration](xref:fundamentals/configuration/index).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preferred approach for setting log filter rules is by using [Configuration](xref:fundamentals/configuration/index).
```

The following example shows how to register filter rules in code:

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/MyMain/Program.cs?name=snippet_FilterInCode)]

> `logging.AddFilter("System", LogLevel.Debug)` specifies the `System` category and log level `Debug`. The filter is applied to all providers because a specific provider was not provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`logging.AddFilter("System", LogLevel.Debug)` specifies the `System` category and log level `Debug`. The filter is applied to all providers because a specific provider was not configured.
```
